What is Big Data?
Big data refers to massive complex structured and unstructured data sets that are rapidly generated and transmitted from a wide variety of sources. 

History of big data
Data collection can be traced back to the use of stick tallies by ancient civilization when tracking food, but the history of big data really begins much later. Here is a brief timeline of some of notable moments that have led us to where we are today.

1881
One of the first instances of data overload is experienced during the 1880 census. The Hollerith Tabulating Machine is invented and the work of processing census data is cut from ten years of labor to under a year.
1928
German-Austrian engineer Fritz Pfleumer develops magnetic data storage on tape, which led the way for how digital data would be stored in the coming century.
1948
Shannon’s Information Theory is developed, laying the foundation for the information infrastructure widely used today.
1970
Edgar F. Codd, a mathematician at IBM, presents a “relational database” displaying how information in large databases can be accessed without knowing its structure or location. This was formerly reserved for specialists or those with extensive computer knowledge.
1976
Commercial use of Material Requirements Planning (MRP) systems are developed to organize and schedule information, becoming more common for catalyzing business operations.
1989
The World Wide Web is created by Tim Berners-Lee.
2001
Doug Laney presents a paper describing the "3 Vs of Data," which becomes the fundamental characteristics of big data. That same year the term “software-as-a-service” is shared for the first time.  
2005
Hadoop, the open-source software framework for large dataset storage is created.
2007
The term “big data” is introduced to the masses in the Wired article "The End of Theory: The Data Deluge Makes the Scientific Method Obsolete."
2008
A team of computer science researches publish the paper "Big Data Computing: Creating Revolutionary Breakthroughs in Commerce, Science and Society," describing how big data is fundamentally changing the way companies and organizations do business.
2010
Google CEO Eric Schmidt reveals that every two days people are creating as much information as people created from the beginning of civilization until 2003.
2014
More and more companies begin moving their Enterprise Resource Planning Systems (ERP) to the cloud.
Internet of Things (IoT) becomes widely used with an estimate of 3.7 billion connected devices or things in use, transmitting large amounts of data every day.
2016
The Obama administration releases the "Federal Big Data Research and Strategic Development Plan," designed to drive research and development of big data applications that will directly benefit society and the economy.
2017
